DOCS-7031-4.2-security-lp-kt (#1149)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/securing.adoc

> include::_attributes.adoc[]

Reviewer: Instructions for edit:

Type of edit: Standard
Preferred date Friday Jan 24th. Due date Monday Jan 27th.
This is the main landing page for the Security section of the Mule Runtime, basically is an intro and summary references to other security topics. 
Thank you.:thankyou-4607:

endif::[]
:keywords: security, securing
:page-aliases: mule-security.adoc, configuring-security.adoc

> Security is an important aspect that you must take into account for your applications. +

Reviewer: This is kind of wordy and unfocused. I suggest jumping right in to the following paragraph, as edited below.
```suggestion
```

> Businesses must ensure that the valuable information they store and make available through software applications and Web services is secure. Locked away and protected from unauthorized users and malicious attackers, protected resources, such as credit card information or Social Security numbers, must still be accessible to authorized legitimate users and systems in order to conduct business transactions. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is critical to ensure that the valuable information that a business stores and makes available through software applications and web services is secure, protected from unauthorized users and malicious attackers. But it is also critical that these protected resources, such as credit card information or Social Security numbers, be immediately accessible to authorized, legitimate users and systems to conduct business transactions. +
```

> To provide secure access to information, applications and services can apply a variety of security measures. Mule runtime engine provides several tools and methods that enable developers to protect applications according to security requirements, prevent security breaches and facilitate authorized access to data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide secure access to information, applications and services can apply a variety of security measures. Mule runtime engine (Mule) provides several tools and methods that enable developers to protect applications according to security requirements, to prevent security breaches and facilitate authorized access to data.
```
Are these developers our audience? Can we replace "developers" with "you," or should we replace "businesses" (above) with "you"? What is the real focus: the customer problem or the developer problem of solving the customer problem?

> Going from securing your application configuration properties to using cryptography capabilities, configuring FIPS 140-2 certified environment, securing flows with Spring Security, configuring TLS cryptographic protocol, obtaining access to protected resource using Oath Authorization Grant Types and configuring the Mule Secure Token Service.

Reviewer: "Going from..." does not automatically transition from the previous sentence introducing "tools and methods."
Consider ending that previous sentence with a colon...even reducing that sentence to end with "applications:

"To provide secure access to information, applications and services can apply a variety of security measures. Mule runtime engine (Mule) provides several tools and methods that enable developers to protect applications:
* Securing application configuration properties
* Using the Crytography module
* Configuring a FIPS 140-2 certified environment
* Securing flows....

I think a vertical list is what you want.

== Secure Configuration Properties

> Encrypt configuration properties for your applications. The process involves creating a secure configuration properties file, defining the secure properties in the file and configuring the file in your project with the Mule Secure Configuration Properties Extension module. +

Reviewer: How about...:
```suggestion
Encrypting configuration properties for your applications involves creating a secure configuration properties file, defining the secure properties in the file, and configuring the file in your project with the Mule Secure Configuration Properties Extension module. +
```

See details in xref:secure-configuration-properties.adoc[Secure Configuration Properties]

== Cryptography Module

> The module provides cryptography capabilities to a Mule application. Main capabilities include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cryptography module provides the following main cryptography capabilities to a Mule application:
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove periods from the following list items, which are not complete sentences.

* Symmetric encryption and decryption of messages.

> * Asymmetric encryption and decryption of messages.

Reviewer: Consider replacing with "* Symmetric and asymmetric encryption and decryption of messages"
The list item that follows combines signing and validation, so combining sym/asym would be consistent.

> * Message signing and signature validation of signed messages. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Message signing and signature validation of signed messages +
```

This module supports three different strategies to encrypt and sign your messages:

* xref:cryptography-pgp.adoc[PGP] +

>  For signature/encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Provides basic signing and encryption.
```

* xref:cryptography-xml.adoc[XML] +

>  For signature/encryption of XML documents or elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Provides signing and encryption of XML documents or elements.
```

* xref:cryptography-jce.adoc[JCE] +

>  For using a wider range of cryptography capabilities provided by the Java Cryptography Extension. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Provides the wide range of cryptography capabilities available through the Java Cryptography Extension. +
```

> See details in xref:cryptography.adoc[Cryptography Module]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See details in xref:cryptography.adoc[Cryptography Module].
```

> == FIPS 140-2 Compliance Support

Reviewer: However you decide to word the introductory list of tools and methods, make sure that the wording of the listed items match the wording of the respective subtopics.

"compliance support" sounds a bit redundant.

> Mule 4 can be configured to run in a FIPS 140-2 certified environment. There are two requirements:

Reviewer: active voice
```suggestion
You can configure Mule 4 to run in a FIPS 140-2 certified environment if you meet the following two requirements:
```

> * Have a certified cryptography module installed in your Java environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A certified cryptography module installed in your Java environment
```

> * Adjust Mule settings to run in FIPS security mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Mule settings adjusted to run in FIPS security mode
```

See details in xref:fips-140-2-compliance-support.adoc[FIPS 140-2 Compliance Support]

== Spring Security

> Spring Security provides a number of authentication and authorization providers such as JAAS, LDAP, CAS (Yale Central Authentication service), and DAO. The following topics help get you started securing your flows using Spring Security:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spring Security provides authentication and authorization via JAAS, LDAP, CAS (Yale Central Authentication service), and DAO. The following topics help get you started securing your flows using Spring Security:
```

* xref:setting-up-ldap-provider-for-spring-security.adoc[Configure LDAP Provider for Spring Security] +

> Perform component authorization, or use it as a Mule security provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform component authorization, or use Spring as a Mule security provider.
```

* xref:component-authorization-using-spring-security.adoc[Component Authorization Using Spring Security] +

> Configure authorization using Spring Security features on your Mule components, so that users with different roles can only invoke certain methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure authorization using Spring Security features on your Mule components, so that users with different roles can invoke only certain methods.
```

== TLS Configuration
TLS is a cryptographic protocol that provides communications security for your Mule app. Mule 4.x supports Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.1 and 1.2.

See details in xref:tls-configuration.adoc[TLS Configuration]

== OAuth Authorization Grant Types

> There are four types of authorization grants that an OAuth consumer (a client app) can use to obtain access to a protected resource from an OAuth service provider: Authorization Code, Implicit, Resource Owner Password Credentials and Client Credentials.

Reviewer: serial comma:
```suggestion
There are four types of authorization grants that an OAuth consumer (a client app) can use to obtain access to a protected resource from an OAuth service provider: Authorization Code, Implicit, Resource Owner Password Credentials, and Client Credentials.
```

See details in xref:authorization-grant-types.adoc[OAuth Authorization Grant Types]

== Mule Secure Token Service

> Mule supports the OAuth 2.0 protocol. The way to configure OAuth 2.0 authorization differs, depending on the OAuth role and your objective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule supports the OAuth 2.0 protocol. How you configure OAuth 2.0 authorization depends on your OAuth role and objective.
```
